Contributor Documentation Refactor (#25304)
hashicorp/terraform-provider-aws: docs/add-a-new-resource.md

# Adding a New Resource

New resources are required when AWS adds a new service, or adds new features within an existing service which would require a new resource to manage in Terraform. Typically anything with a new set of CRUD API endpoints is a great candidate for a new resource.

> Each resource should be submitted for review in isolation, pull requests containing multiple resources are harder to review and the maintainers will normally ask for them to be broken apart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each resource should be submitted for review in isolation. Pull requests containing multiple resources are harder to review and the maintainers will normally ask for them to be broken apart.
```

Please use the `skaff` tool to generate new resource and test templates for any new resource. Doing so will ensure that any boilerplate code, structural best practices and repetitive naming is done for you and always represents our most current standards.

## Prerequisites

If this is the first resource for a new service, please ensure the Service Client for the new service has been added and merged. See [Adding a new Service](add-a-new-service.md) for details.

## Steps to Add a Resource

### Fork the provider and create a feature branch

For a new resources use a branch named `f-{resource name}` for example: `f-ec2-vpc`. See [Raising a Pull Request](raising-a-pull-request.md) for more details.

### Name the resource

> Either by creating the file manually, or using `skaff` to generate a template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the resource file using `skaff` to generate a template or manually.
```

> All resources should be named with the following pattern: `aws_<service>_<name>`
> 
> Where `<service>` is the AWS short service name that matches the key in the `serviceData` map in the `conns` package (created via the [Adding a new Service](add-a-new-service.md))
> 
> Where `<name>` represents the conceptual infrastructure represented by the create, read, update, and delete methods of the service API. It should be a singular noun. For example, in an API that has methods such as `CreateThing`, `DeleteThing`, `DescribeThing`, and `ModifyThing` the name of the resource would end in `_thing`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Naming Guide](/naming/#resources-and-data-sources) for details on how to name the new resource and the resource file. Not following the naming standards will cause extra delay as maintainers request that you make changes.
```

### Fill out the Resource Schema

In the `internal/service/<service>/<service>.go` file you will see a `Schema` property which exists as a map of `Schema` objects. This relates the AWS API data model with the Terraform resource itself. For each property you want to make available in Terraform, you will need to add it as an attribute, choose the correct data type and supply the correct [Schema Behaviors](https://www.terraform.io/plugin/sdkv2/schemas/schema-behaviors) in order to ensure Terraform knows how to correctly handle the value.

Typically you will add arguments to represent the values that are under control by Terraform, and attributes in order to supply read-only values as references for Terraform. These are distinguished by Schema Behavior.

> Attribute names are to specified in `camel_case` as opposed to the AWS API which is `CamelCase`

Reviewer: This duplicates explanation in `skaff`. I always like when there's just one place for something to ease maintenance when it changes. Maybe here we give a couple links and refer them to the `skaff` template?

Author: I'll probably lean to just keep this part very high-level, but linking right to the template for details.

### Implement CRUD handlers

> These will map planned Terraform state to the AWS API call, or an AWS API response to an applied Terraform state. You will also need to handle different response types (including errors correctly). For complex attributes you will need to implement Flattener or Expander functions. The [Data Handling and Conversion Guide](data-handling-and-conversion.md) covers everything you need to know for mapping AWS API responses to Terraform State and vice-versa. The [Error Handling Guide](error-handling.md) covers everything you need to know about handling AWS API responses consistently.

Reviewer: Once again, this is all covered in `skaff`. Maybe we give the links and refer them to `skaff`?

### Write passing Acceptance Tests

> In order to adequately test the resource we will need to write a complete set of Acceptance Tests. You will need an AWS account for this which allows the creation of that resource. See [Writing Acceptance Tests](running-and-writing-acceptance-tests.md) for a detailed guide on how to approach these.

Reviewer: The way we change voice from "we" to "you" to commands in our documentation drives me a little crazy. In my opinion, it should all be in command form. People are looking at documentation, they expect to be told what to do:

* _"we will need to write a complete set of..."_ sounds like a Victorian grandma.
* "Write a complete set of..." is direct and to the point.

You will need at minimum:

- Basic Test - Tests full lifecycle (CRUD + Import) of a minimal configuration (all required fields, no optional).
- Disappears Test - Tests what Terraform does if a resource it is tracking can no longer be found.

> - Per Attribute Tests - For each attribute a test should exists which tests that particular attribute in isolation alongside any required fields.

Reviewer: This is outright incorrect, confusing "attribute" with "argument." But even correcting that, this may have been a "standard" at some point but it was never followed and is impractical or even impossible to follow. We shouldn't confuse people with it.

```suggestion
- Argument Tests - All arguments should be tested in a pragmatic way. Ensure that each argument can be initially set, updated, and cleared, as applicable. Depending on the logic and interaction of arguments, this may take one to several separate tests. 
```

### Create documentation for the resource

> Add a file covering the use of the new resource in `website/docs/r/<service>_<name>.md`. You may want to also add examples of the resource in use particularly if its use is complex, or relies on resources in another service. This documentation will appear on the [Terraform Registry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest) when the resource is made available in a provider release. It is fine to link out to AWS Documentation where appropriate, particularly for values which are likely to change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a file covering the use of the new resource in `website/docs/r/<service>_<name>.md`. Add more examples if it is complex or relies on resources in another service. This documentation will appear on the [Terraform Registry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest) when the resource is made available in a provider release. Link to AWS Documentation where appropriate, particularly for values which are likely to change.
```

### Ensure format and lint checks are passing locally

> Run `go fmt` to format your code, and install and run all linters to detect and resolve any structural issues with the implementation or documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Format your code and check linters to detect various issues.
```

We need to work on providing one easy command to run all linters locally. For example, semgrep isn't included in `make lint`. Saying "all linters" is misleading unfortunately.

```sh

> go fmt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
make fmt
```
